Project_1_Sedismart_Revenue_Analysis/README.md, before:

## Introduction
**Scenario:**\
SEDISMART is an imaginary office furniture &equipment company and the management has a meeting soon in which they discuss the business-status.The tasks were to provide a revenue analysis by multiple criteria using different business metrics. Furthermore, I received a business
a revenue breakdown by different crteria and to show that in an interactive self-service dashboard. 

**Data Scource:**\
Excel file containing the budget, staff, clients, sales, purchases and products tables. 

## Project Plan and Flow Summary

__Data Collection__\
- Connected to the Excel files usng Power Bi and extracted the relavent tables.\
![](assets/1-data_collection.PNG)

__Data Preparation__\
- Cleaned and munged the data extracted in  the query editor. 
- Added a composite keys to the sales and the purchases tables and to the sales and budget tables using DAX to be able to connect them in the data model.
- Consturcted a dynamic calendar table from the first and last date in the sales table using DAX.\
![](assets/2-data_preprocessing.PNG)

__Data Modeling__\
- Connected the tables in the data model.\
![](assets/3-data_model.PNG)

__Data Analysis__\
Calculated the business metrics using DAX ad visualized the findings ofthe analysis using various visuals.
![](assets/4-data_analysis.PNG)

__Findings Presentations__\
Designed a report with a 4 self-service interactive dashboards; revenue by regions and cities, revenue by products, revenue by account handlers and customers, revenue timeline and trend.
![](assets/5-cities_and_regions.PNG)
![](assets/6-products.PNG)
![](assets/7-account_handlers_customers.PNG)
![](assets/8-timeline_and_trend.PNG)

Commit message:

adding some text in the readme file

Project_1_Sedismart_Revenue_Analysis/README.md, after:

## Introduction
**Scenario:**\
SEDISMART is an imaginary office furniture &equipment company and the management has a meeting soon in which they discuss the business-status.The tasks were to provide a revenue analysis by multiple criteria using different business metrics. Furthermore, I received a business
a revenue breakdown by different crteria and to show that in an interactive self-service dashboard. 

**Data Scource:**\
Excel file containing the budget, staff, clients, sales, purchases and products tables. 

## Project Plan and Flow Summary

__Data Collection__\
- Connected to the Excel files usng Power Bi and extracted the relavent tables.\
![](assets/1-data_collection.PNG)

__Data Preparation__\
- Cleaned and munged the data extracted in  the query editor. 
- Added a composite keys to the sales and the purchases tables and to the sales and budget tables using DAX to be able to connect them in the data model.
- Consturcted a dynamic calendar table from the first and last date in the sales table using DAX.\
![](assets/2-data_preprocessing.PNG)

__Data Modeling__\
- Connected the tables in the data model.\
![](assets/3-data_model.PNG)

__Data Analysis__\
Calculated the business metrics using DAX ad visualized the findings ofthe analysis using various visuals.
![](assets/4-data_analysis.PNG)

__Findings Presentations__\
Designed a report with a 4 self-service interactive dashboards; revenue by regions and cities, revenue by products, revenue by account handlers and customers, revenue timeline and trend.
The regions and cities daashbaord included:
- Measures of revenue, gross profit, gross margin, revenue variance and margin variance in summary cards.
- Measure of revenue and budget for each region in a guage chart.
- Measure of revenue and gross profit for each city in stacked bar chart.
![](assets/5-cities_and_regions.PNG)

The products dashboard included:
- Measures of revenue, gross profit, gross margin, revenue variance and margin variance in summary cards.
- Measure of revenue by product-ranges in a donut chart.
- Measure of revenue and gross profit by products in a stacked bar chart.
- Slicers of region, branch and year.
![](assets/6-products.PNG)

The account handlers and customers dashboard included:
- Measures of revenue, gross profit, gross margin, revenue variance and margin variance in summary cards.
- Measure of revenue and gross profit by account handlers in a stacked dashboard.
- Measure of revenue and gross profit by customers in a stacked dashboard.
- Map visual to locate the top 30 customers for each account handler (some of the postcodes did not show in the map becuase it is a synthesized data).
- Slicers of region, branch and year.
![](assets/7-account_handlers_customers.PNG)

The timeline and tredns dashboard included:
- Measures of revenue, gross profit, gross margin, revenue variance and margin variance in summary cards.
- Timeline of the revenue by year with a drill down feature to the quarter and month levels.
- Measure of gross profit in a bar chart for each year.
- Slicers of region, branch, product-range and product.
![](assets/8-timeline_and_trend.PNG)
